*vim-xml-index*

Xml / Dtd / Xsd
***************

*xml*


Xml
===


Code Completion
---------------

Xml code completion uses the standard Vim code completion mechanism
(|vim-code_completion|) like so:

>

   <ser<Ctrl-X><Ctrl-U>

   <servlet>
     <ser<Ctrl-X><Ctrl-U>

   <servlet>
     <servlet-name>
   ...

<


Note: Requires a valid dtd or xsd to determine possible completions.


Definition Lookup
-----------------

When editing xml files, eclim provides a couple commands which allow
you to quickly and easily open the file's data definition and
optionally jump to the definition of a particular element.

Note: When opening urls, these commands rely on netrw (:help netrw).

*:DtdDefinition*

- :DtdDefinition [<element>] - When invoked, this command will attempt
  to locate the dtd declaration in the current xml file and open the
  dtd in a new split window.  If you supply an element name when
  invoking the command, it will attempt to locate and jump to the
  definition of that element within the dtd.  If no element name is
  supplied, but the cursor is located on an element name when invoke,
  that element name will be used.

*:XsdDefinition*

- :XsdDefinition [<element>] - Behaves like :DtdDefinition except this
  command locates and opens the corresponding schema definition file.

*xml-validation*


Validation
----------

When editing a xml file eclim will default to validating the file when
it is written.  Any errors will be added to the current window's
location list (:help location-list) and their corresponding line
number noted via Vim's sign functionality.

If you don't want xml files validated when saving them, you can set
the g:EclimXmlValidate variable described in the configuration section
below.

Regardless of whether you have validation enabled upon saving or not,
the following command is still available for validating xml files on
demand.

*:Validate_xml*

:Validate [<file>] - Validate the supplied file or the current file if
no file name provided.

If eclimd is not currently running, and the xmllint command is
available, eclim will validate the xml file using that.  Eclim will
never use xmllint when saving the file with g:EclimXmlValidate
enabled.

*:XmlFormat*


Format
------

On occasion you may encounter some xml content that is unformatted
(like raw content from a web service).

>

   <blah><foo>one</foo><bar>two</bar></blah>

<


Executing :XmlFormat will reformat the current xml file like so:

>

   <blah>
     <foo>one</foo>
     <bar>two</bar>
   </blah>

<



Configuration
-------------

Vim Settings (|vim-settings|)

*g:EclimXmlValidate*

- g:EclimXmlValidate (Defualt: 1) - If set to 0, disables xml
  validation when saving the file.

- g:EclimValidateSortResults (Default: 'occurrence') - If set to
  'severity', the validation results will be sorted by severity
  (errors > warnings > info > etc.)

*dtd*


Dtd
===


Validation
----------

When editing a dtd file eclim will default to validating the file when
it is written. Any errors will be added to the current window's
location list (:help location-list) and their corresponding line
number noted via Vim's sign functionality.

If you do not want your dtd files validated automatically when saved,
you can set the |g:EclimDtdValidate| variable described in the
configuration section below.

*:Validate_dtd*

Whether or not auto validation has been enabled, eclim also exposes
the command :Validate to manually execute the validation of the file.


Configuration
-------------

Vim Settings (|vim-settings|)

*g:EclimDtdValidate*

- g:EclimDtdValidate (Default: 1) - If set to 0, disables validation
  when saving the file.

- g:EclimValidateSortResults (Default: 'occurrence') - If set to
  'severity', the validation results will be sorted by severity
  (errors > warnings > info > etc.)

*xsd*


Xsd
===


Validation
----------

When editing a xsd file eclim will default to validating the file when
it is written.  Any errors will be added to the current window's
location list (:help location-list) and their corresponding line
number noted via Vim's sign functionality.

If you do not want your xsd files validated automatically when saved,
you can set the |g:EclimXsdValidate| variable described in the
configuration section below.

*:Validate_xsd*

Whether or not auto validation has been enabled, eclim also exposes
the command :Validate to manually execute the validation of the file.


Configuration
-------------

Vim Settings (|vim-settings|)

*g:EclimXsdValidate*

- g:EclimXsdValidate (Default: 1) - If set to 0, disables validation
  when saving the file.

- g:EclimValidateSortResults (Default: 'occurrence') - If set to
  'severity', the validation results will be sorted by severity
  (errors > warnings > info > etc.)

vim:ft=eclimhelp